Renal failure means your
kidneys have stopped functioning.
Sometimes this happens abruptly,
and is potentially reversible.
In other cases,
known as end-stage renal disease,
the kidneys permanently stop functioning,
and only dialysis
or kidney transplantation
will allow you to continue living.
Dialysis involves filtering a
person’s blood through a machine
because the kidneys cannot perform this vital function.
In kidney transplantation,
a working kidney from a donor
takes over the function of the failed kidneys.
This is done through a surgical procedure.
The new kidney is placed in the abdomen
through a surgical incision.
It is attached to the artery and vein
that supplied blood and carried blood away
from one of the failed kidneys.
The new kidney is also attached
via the ureter,
a tube that carries urine
from the kidney to the bladder.
Unless the old kidneys are causing problems,
they are usually left in place.
Although life-long medication
and monitoring are required,
the new kidney will enable the person who received it
to live a relatively normal life.